---
title: Impact Reporting
date: Last Modified
permalink: tools/impactreporting/index.html
eleventyNavigation:
  key: impactreporting
  order: 5
  title: Impact Reporting
---

The Causal Impact tool uses [Google's causal impact repo](https://google.github.io/CausalImpact/CausalImpact.html) to test if the introduction of a new feature or change to your website has had an impact on your website's performance. This tool is designed to help you understand the impact of changes to your website, and to help you make data-driven decisions using statistical analysis.

## What it needs
Access to your GSC account, and a list of dates (The oldest date, and the date you expect the change to have taken effect). Warning: if you choose dates that are out of order or inaccessible by Squeryl, it will choose the dates closest to your request and run the analysis on those dates in the correct order.

## How it works

The Causal Impact tool uses [Google's causal impact repo](https://google.github.io/CausalImpact/CausalImpact.html) to test the statistical significance of changes made on a date. For example, how many additional daily clicks were generated by an advertising campaign? Answering a question like this can be difficult when a randomized experiment is not available.

From the package overview:

"
Given a response time series (e.g., clicks) and a set of control time series (e.g., clicks in non-affected markets or clicks on other sites), the package constructs a Bayesian structural time-series model. This model is then used to try and predict the counterfactual, i.e., how the response metric would have evolved after the intervention if the intervention had never occurred.
"

## How to use it


## Workflow

1. Select a GSC account.
2. Select a date range for the pre-intervention period.
3. Select a date range for the post-intervention period.
4. Run the analysis.
5. Download the results.

## Use cases

- Understanding the impact of changes to your website.
- Understanding the impact of a Google update.
- Understanding the impact of competitor changes.

## Use with other tools

The Causal Impact tool can be used with other tools to understand the impact of changes to your website. This can be used to inform content strategy. You can also see if there was a drop or rise in traffic for a particular type of content.

- Diagnose traffic drops or rises
- Diagnose the effectiveness of an SEO strategy
- Diagnose whether the traffic impact was related to a specific change
